# Big-Data-in-Political-Science
Online Appendix and replication materials for the article "Political Science and Big Data: Structured Data, Unstructured Data, and How to Use Them" by Jonathan Grossman and Ami Pedahzur, to be published in *Political Science Quarterly*.


**Online-Appendix.pdf** : An online appendix to the article.



**WoS\_Articles\_Database.csv** : Our database of 133 articles about big data in political science. The preparation of the database was as follows: on 1 January 2019, we searched the _Web of Science_ (WoS) Social Sciences Citation Index (SSCI) for items with the expression _&quot;big data&quot;_ in their TOPIC field. We refined the results by the category DOCUMENT TYPES, excluding all papers that were not defined as &quot;article&quot; (for example, editorial materials, reviews, book reviews, and proceedings papers). Further refining refined the results by WEB OF SCIENCE CATEGORIES, we only included those articles that were published by journals that WoS had categorized as &quot;political science&quot; (n=87), &quot;international relations&quot; (n=35), and &quot;public administration&quot; (n=36). These numbers are not exclusive. WoS may assign up to three categories to the same journal.

All in all, there were 133 articles in the database at the time of its creation (1 January 2019). As WoS periodically updates the Social Sciences Citation Index, adding and removing articles and changing their categories, the numbers presented here are likely to change retroactively every once in a while. One article (Quintanilla and Gil-García 2016) is in Spanish, but it offers a title, an abstract, and a list of keywords in English. Therefore, we included it in the database.

For the variables in the database, we downloaded the following bibliographic details from the _Web of Science_:

- Author(s)
- Title
- Source Title: the title of the journal in which the article was published
- Publication Year
- Volume
- Issue
- Beginning Page
- Ending Page
- Number of Pages
- Database:
  - SSCI – PS = Social Sciences Citation Index; Political Science
  - SSCI – IR = Social Sciences Citation Index; International Relations
  - SSCI – PA = Social Sciences Citation Index; Public Administration
- DOI: when provided by the _Web of Science_

We added the following variables after downloading the articles as machine-readable PDF files and running an individual search of each one of them (using the _Adobe Acrobat Pro 2017_ software). We searched for the expression _big data_ (case insensitive), including such variations as _(big) data_, _&quot;big&quot; data_, _big-data_, etc. We coded the findings as follows:

- &quot;Big Data&quot; in Title: 1=yes; 0=no
- &quot;Big Data&quot; in Abstract: 1=yes; 0=no or no abstract
- &quot;Big Data&quot; in Keywords: 1=yes; 0=no. We coded this variable as 1 when the article contained a list of keywords or when WoS provided such a list (&quot;KeyWords Plus&quot;) on the article&#39;s page
- &quot;Big Data&quot; in Article Text: 1=yes; 0=no. This variable refers to the actual content of the article, including the footnotes/endnotes but not including references, authors biographies, acknowledgments, etc.
- &quot;Big Data&quot; in References: 1=yes; 0=no. We coded this variable as 1 when the expression occurred in any part of the references (title, name of journal, name of book, etc.), both when references took the form of footnotes/endnotes and when they appeared as a list at the end of the article.
- No Abstract: 1=neither the PDF version of the article nor WoS contain an abstract for this paper; 0=there is an abstract
- No Keywords: 1=neither the PDF version of the article nor Wos contain a list of keywords; 0=either the article offers such a list or WoS has a list of &quot;KeyWords Plus&quot; for the article (or both)
- No References: 1=the article does not contain references in any form (footnotes, endnotes, bibliography); 0=the article includes references



**Wos\_Big\_Data\_Articles.txt** : An output file generated by the _Web of Science_ on 10 January 2019. This file provided the data for our citation network analyses using the free software package _VOSviewer_ ([http://www.vosviewer.com/](http://www.vosviewer.com/)). It contains bibliometric data for the 133 articles in the database – articles in the _Web of Science_ Social Sciences Citation Index with _big data_ in their TOPIC field, published in journals that the _Web of Science_ categorized as &quot;political science,&quot; &quot;international relations,&quot; or &quot;public administration&quot; (1 January 2019).

**WoS\_Big\_Data\_Articles\_by\_Category.jpg** : An image file generated by the _Web of Science_ on 5 March 2019. This chart shows the 133 articles in the _Web of Science_ database by the category of the journal in which they were published (_Web of Science_ allocates up to three subject categories to each journal).

**Big\_Data\_Articles\_Definitions.csv** : A list of all the workable definitions of big data in the 133 articles of the database. By &quot;workable&quot; we mean either an explicit definition or a discussion of several possible definitions.

**Codebook\_Example\_Khrushchevs\_Visit.xlsx** : A Microsoft Excel file copied from a spreadsheet-database service (Airtable: [https://airtable.com/](https://airtable.com/)) that exemplifies an early stage in the creation of a codebook for a hypothetical process tracing research of Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev&#39;s 1959 visit to the United States. For the example, we used a single source, namely, the article &quot;Khrushchev&#39;s Trip Itinerary&quot; from the website of the PBS 2014 program _Cold War Roadshow_ ([http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/americanexperience/features/cold-war-roadshow-nikita-khrushchevs-trip-itinerary/](http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/americanexperience/features/cold-war-roadshow-nikita-khrushchevs-trip-itinerary/)). The data in the codebook are only those that can be found in this source. Therefore, if a _location_ is not explicitly mentioned in it (for example, the location of the dinner hosted by the Economic Club of New York on 17 September 1959), we coded the relevant value as &quot;Unknown.&quot; Similarly, if an _actor_ was not specifically mentioned in an entry, we did not include him or her in the database.

For example, being Khrushchev&#39;s official tour guide, Henry Cabot Lodge was present in most locations throughout the three days of the visit that we have recorded – as an examination of further evidence indicates. However, as long as Cabot Lodge&#39;s name was not explicitly mentioned by our single source with respect to an event or a location, we did not include it in the relevant cells as this would not satisfy the &quot;burden of truth&quot; criterion.

**Coding\_Summary\_UC\_Berkeley\_Blog\_Definitions.pdf** : An output file generated by the computer-assisted qualitative data analysis software _Nvivo_. This report documents our qualitative coding of the definitions of big data in the University of California, Berkeley School of Information blog 2014 survey ([https://datascience.berkeley.edu/what-is-big-data/](https://datascience.berkeley.edu/what-is-big-data/)). We have coded the 43 definitions according to the following schema:

- _DEF\_Methodology\_Technology_ – definitions that mention either technological or methodological developments with relation to big data
- _DEF\_Value_ – definitions that discuss big data as creating material or intellectual value for users or allowing them to save on resources
- _DEF\_Variety_ – definitions that refer to big data as both structured and unstructured or as complex or as originating in many different sources
- _DEF\_Velocity_ – definitions that refer to the velocity of big data – the fact that such data are produced and analyzed in real time or very quickly
- _DEF\_Volume_ – Definition that refer to the volume, quantity, size, amount, etc. of big data

**Occurrence\_of\_Big\_Data\_in\_Articles\_Database.pdf** : An output file generated by the computer-assisted qualitative data analysis software _Nvivo_. It contains the results of a text query of the expression _&quot;big data&quot; OR &quot;(big) data&quot;_ in the 133 articles in our database. The _References_ column indicates the number of times in which any of the two expressions occurs in every article. The _Coverage_ column refers to the space that these expressions occupy out of the actual content of each article.

Preparing the articles for this content analysis, we manually removed the following parts of each article: title pages; titles; page numbers; page headers; abstracts; keywords; authors&#39; details and biographies; journal details; charts and figures that were not machine-readable; extracts; declarations of conflicting interests; funding information; acknowledgments; advertisement; lists of references; open access information; references to online appendices; disclaimers; legal information; and download information (for example, &quot;Downloaded from https://www.cambridge.org/core. University of Texas Libraries, on 26 Nov 2018 at 18:45:48&quot;).

We also manually removed references that appeared in footnotes or endnotes, including such sentences as &quot;see, for example,&quot; &quot;for details, see,&quot; &quot;cited in,&quot; &quot;emphasis in original,&quot; etc. However, we did not remove from these notes any additional text that was not part of a reference. We also did not remove figure and chart captions and appendices. One article (Cukier and Mayer-Schoenberger 2013) was non-editable, such that we could not remove any part of it except for the title page. Fortunately, this article did not include an abstract, keywords, or a list of references in the first place.

Finally, we searched and manually replaced the following expressions, which _NVivo_ could not process satisfactorily because of the punctuation marks in them:

- _&#39;big data_ > _big data_
- _data&#39;_ > _data_
- _big-data_ > _big data_
